okay so hopefully by now you're having
fun playing that blues jam in the key of
a and hopefully you're able to do that
and if you are congratulations because
it's a big big accomplishment and
something that you'll use through your
years of playing and you'll come up with
all kinds of different variations on
that but that's a really good I think a
good baseline as to how it works in this
lesson we're gonna take a look at
transposing that to different keys so
we're not limited to just the key of a
so let's take a look at this so when we
played that and at a power chord we're
basically on two strings we're on the
fifth string and the fourth string and
the 5th string was an open note it was
an opening and the open a is actually
what makes that nice because it frees up
our other hand to be able to make all
kinds of stretches you can move all up
and down the neck if it needs to well
we're gonna transpose this you're gonna
see that you don't have that flexibility
because instead of playing these open
notes you're gonna have to actually push
down you're gonna fret that open though
so if you think of the nut here which is
this piece the nut as your finger it's
kind of pushing down for you on the on
the zero fret now if we're gonna play in
the key of a sharp for example I'm gonna
have the fret that myself so think of it
as moving the nut up one you're
simulating the nut with your ear finger
so just as the the other note on the
fourth string was here on the a now
we're gonna have to move it up to so
it's gonna have to go to the third fret
so it looks like this you put them
together that's an a sharp power chord
now the challenge isn't that so much as
it is to creating that rhythm and really
all this left is my pinky now I've I
some people can make these power chords
like this with their first and second
finger I don't have long enough fingers
to do that I think it's pretty standard
to use your first finger and your ring
finger and kind of let your you
unfortunately in that scenario though
your
middle fingers kind of out of the game
there's not much you can do with it but
to create that little bouncing rhythm
part we have our pinky free and the
challenge is that you have to stretch so
far so it has to come all the way to the
fifth fret so I'm stretching I have one
finger on the first fret one finger on
the third fret and one finger jumping up
and down that's a fifth fret so it looks
like this and you can see that's kind of
stretch here you know if I hold that
position and what's going on back behind
the neck is my thumb is pressing down
kind of right in the middle press it
pretty hard that's absolutely key you
got to have the thumb back there for
support if you're just trying to do this
with your thumb free-floating or
something it won't work so your thumb
has to be kind of locked into place and
while your thumb is back there is
actually pushing too so your thumb is
pushing and then pushing this way and
your fingers are pushing this way you're
kind of almost it's you're you're
creating a squeezing motion so that's
what that looks like so that's the key
that would be playing that same rhythm
in the key of a sharp now we can slide
this all up another neck here's the key
of D key of C C sharp so forth now we're
not limited to just playing on the fifth
and fourth string just as we learned in
the blues jam in the key of a we started
on the fifth and fifth and fourth strain
to play the a but then we jumped up to
the fourth and third string to play the
D well we can also work do anything on
we could do the same pattern on any of
the fourth and third strings so you can
see you can slide it all up up and down
the in the neck there to get you can so
you can find whatever key it is you're
trying to find you can also do the same
thing on the fifth and sixth strings so
we play the e down here
if I played here that's the in the key
of F you got F sharp G G sharp
now an interesting thing happens here
when I move up one more what's above the
G sharp was an A but this is an a2 so
you can play that exact same a it sounds
exactly the same either of these
positions one thing that if you go to
youtube and do a search for Chuck Berry
you'll notice that Chuck Berry played a
lot most of what he played rhythm wise
was kind of using this this rhythm and
obviously he inspired everybody from the
Rolling Stones to Eric Clapton you know
and obviously many many artists through
the years have picked up that rhythm but
I always kind of think of that as a
Chuck Berry rhythm and watch his hands
when he's playing he's he's that's
exactly what he's doing is that
obviously he'd mix it in with other
things
so this is just the key of a just same
key that we learned so anyway I'm not
sure why I chokeberry always kind of
played up here in fact I think I've seen
him I don't know that I've ever seen him
playing down here I guess it's because
he's got such long fingers or something
but anyway he's Chuck Berry you can get
away with it but there you go
I think that that's pretty much all
there is to transposing that blues
rhythm to any key so hopefully that's
something that makes sense to you you
know something you have to practice in
the beginning it's gonna hurt your hand
a little bit especially right here
there's a muscle or maybe it's a tendon
or something but you'll feel you'll feel
them it kind of burn we'll fill that
when you're first doing this but just
keep practicing it and that will go away
you'll be you'll be a pro